clarification and additional example for private_class_fields (#28357)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/classes/private_class_fields/index.md

> **Note:** Code run in the Chrome console can access private properties outside the class. This is a DevTools-only relaxation of the JavaScript syntax restriction.

> If you access a private property from an object that has not declared that property in the class body, a {{jsxref("TypeError")}} is thrown, instead of returning `undefined` as normal properties do.

Reviewer: I think this is more confusing than the original, because we only care if the object eventually "have" it, not if it's "declared". Is the original incorrect?

Author: For me, the current text, "doesn't have the property" is unclear/confusing because of the way private properties are declared explicitly instead of on-demand in the constructor or elsewhere if the class is extensible.  Maybe the confusion is mine alone. I understand how it works now and this isn't the prime reason I did this.  I'm fine with reverting this change.

You can use the [`in`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/in) operator to check whether an externally defined object possesses a private property. This will return `true` if the private field or method exists, and `false` otherwise.

```js example-good
class C {
  #x;
  constructor(x) {
    this.#x = x;
  }
  static getX(obj) {
    if (#x in obj) return obj.#x;

    return "obj must be an instance of C";
  }
}
console.log(C.getX(new C("foo"))); // "foo"
console.log(C.getX(new C(0.196))); // 0.196
console.log(C.getX(new C(new Date()))); // the current date and time
console.log(C.getX({})); // "obj must be an instance of C"
```

Note a corollary of private names being always pre-declared and non-deletable: if you found that an object possesses one private property of the current class (either from a `try...catch` or an `in` check), it must possess all other private properties. An object possessing the private properties of a class generally means it was constructed by that class (although [not always](#returning_overriding_object)).

> Private properties are not part of the [prototypical inheritance](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Inheritance_and_the_prototype_chain) model since they can only be accessed within the current class's body and aren't inherited by subclasses. Private properties with the same name within different classes are entirely different and do not interoperate with each other. See them as external metadata attached to each instance, managed by the class. For this reason, [`Object.freeze()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/freeze) and [`Object.seal()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/seal) have no effect on private properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private properties are not part of the [prototypical inheritance](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Inheritance_and_the_prototype_chain) model since they can only be accessed within the current class's body and aren't inherited by subclasses. Private properties with the same name within different classes are entirely different and do not interoperate with each other. See them as external metadata attached to each instance, managed by the class. For this reason, {{jsxref("Object.freeze()")}} and {{jsxref("Object.seal()")}} have no effect on private properties.
```

console.log(C.getX({})); // TypeError: Cannot read private member #x from an object whose class did not declare it
```

But as the previous example illustrates, private variabled are available inside
static functions too, on externally defined instances of the class. As in the

> previous example, the obj argument is supposed to be an instance of C or undefined. This example also validates obj to prevent the error in TypeError in the previous example and supplant it with some friendlier text.

Reviewer: > or undefined

Why?

Author: Yes, you're right about that.  I was in the mode of doing that in my own code in a specific context.  I'll remove that.

```js example-ok
class C {
  #x;
  constructor(x) {
    this.#x = x;
  }
  static getX(obj) {

>     if (obj instanceof C) return obj.#x;

Reviewer: The `#x in obj` approach is already mentioned below, and that is a far better practice than `obj instanceof C`.

Author: OK, again my misunderstanding of that section.  Now I can see what it intends to say.  That part of the example can be removed.  My main thing was to clarify the usage of private fields in static classes operating on externally defined instances of the class.  That's what I had to experiment with on my own because I didn't get it from the docs here.

console.log(C.getX({})); // TypeError: Cannot read private member #x from an object whose class did not declare it
```

> But as the previous example illustrates, private variabled are available inside
> static functions too, on externally defined instances of the class. As in the
> previous example, the obj argument is supposed to be an instance of C. This example also illustrates how to use the [`in`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/in) operator to check for potentially missing private fields (or private methods). This will return `true` if the private field or method exists, and `false` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example also illustrates that you can access private properties within static functions too, and on externally defined instances of the class.

You can use the [`in`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/in) operator to check whether an externally defined object possesses a private property. This will return `true` if the private field or method exists, and `false` otherwise.
```

The two parts aren't related: you can access private properties in static methods; you can access private properties on externally-defined objects (I guess you mean "objects that aren't `this`").

Author: OK, it's my bad wording.  As you say, I mean not `this`.  I am a self-taught programmer, so my vocabulary is not always up to spec, and I have no problem being corrected on such things.

> ```js example-ok

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js example-good
```

console.log(obj); // In some dev tools, it shows {#stamp: 42}
console.log(Stamper.getStamp(obj)); // 42
console.log(obj instanceof Stamper); // false

> new Stamper(obj); // Error: Initializing an object twice is an error with private fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// You cannot stamp private properties twice
new Stamper(obj); // Error: Initializing an object twice is an error with private fields
```
